---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "Tessell Provider"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# Tessell Provider

Tessell makes deploying cloud databases extremely simple and elegant. It's fully-managed database service offering that takes care of your data infrastructure and data management needs.

A Terraform provider is available for Tessell that allows you to integrate with the Tessell API and manage all the resources including:
<br>
[1] Database services across all clouds (AWS, Azure), and database engines (Oracle, PostgreSQL, MySQL, SQL Server).
<br>
[2] Availability Machines for your data protection (snapshots) and secondary environments (sanitized snapshots).
<br>
[3] Creation of database service clones

## Example Usage

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    tessell = {
      source  = "tessell-cloud/tessell"
      version = "0.0.24"
    }
  }
}

# Configure the Tessell Provider
provider "tessell" {
  api_address = "https://api.domain.tessell.com"        // Can be skipped if TESSELL_API_ADDRESS is set in env
  api_key     = "JNoAC3GFFUPacbd9sCbnsdZ6KWTvhyE9msEa"  // Can be skipped if TESSELL_API_KEY is set in env
  tenant_id   = "f3982b8d-5678-48c6-951c-54fd5242d4a7"  // Can be skipped if TESSELL_TENANT_ID is set in env
}
```

## Getting the API address
The API address to use is always in the format `https://api.domain.tessell.com`

The `domain.tessell.com` part is the same as what is visible in the address bar of the browser, when visiting the Tessell web portal.

## Getting the API key
An API key is only visible to the user once, just right after creating it. After that, there is no way to retrieve an already created API key. If a key is forgotten, it is recommended to delte the existing one, and create a new one.
<br>
Below are the steps to create an API key on the Tessell web portal:

- Click on the profile icon located at the top-right of the page
- Select “User Profile” from the drop-down menu
- On the Profile page, go to the “API Keys” tab
- Click on “Generate API Key” button, located on the right side of the page, which will open a modal
  - Fill the appropriate Label & Description for the API Key
  - Choose an expiry period for the key, or select the "Never expire" checkbox
  - Click the "Create" button, located at te right-bottom corner or the modal
- The API key will be created and displayed on the screen in another modal.
- Copy/Download it by clicking on the corresponding button beside the key and store it in a secure place.
<br>Once this modal is closed, it can no more be retrieved, in any way.

## Getting the Tenant ID
Below are the steps to get the Tenant ID from the Tessell web portal:

- Click on the profile icon located at the top-right of the page
- Select “User Profile” from the drop-down menu
- On the Profile page, the Tenant ID is displayed, with a copy button beside it.

## Configuring the Tessell Provider using only environment variables 
If all 3 environment variables `TESSELL_API_ADDRESS`, `TESSELL_API_KEY` and `TESSELL_TENANT_ID` are set, the Tessell Provider can be configured with just the minimal code as below:

```terraform
terraform {
  required_providers {
    tessell = {
      source  = "tessell-cloud/tessell"
      version = "0.0.19"
    }
  }
}

# Configure the Tessell Provider
provider "tessell" {}
```
<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `api_address` (String)
- `api_key` (String, Sensitive)
- `tenant_id` (String)
