---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "tessell_db_service Resource - terraform-provider-tessell"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  
---

# tessell_db_service (Resource)

Tessell offers a fully managed database service offering. The 'DB Service' resource reperesents the Tessell managed Database Service.

Changes to a DB Service can occur when you wish to update its state. Example: A DB Service can be stopped, and started back at a later point of time.

DB Service Engine Types:
Tessell supports managed database service for four types of database engines: Oracle, Microsoft SQL Server, Postgresql, and MySQL.

DB Service Topology:
Tessell supports both single instance and highly available database service topologies.

Clouds:
Tessell supports managed database services on AWS and Azure clouds.

Encryption at rest:
The Tessell managed database services support the data at rest encryption.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Provision Postgresql Single Instance DB service
resource "tessell_db_service" "example" {
  name                       = "finance-db"
  description                = "Database for finance department"
  subscription               = "default"
  engine_type                = "POSTGRESQL"
  topology                   = "single_instance"
  software_image             = "PostgreSQL 13"
  software_image_version     = "PostgreSQL 13.3"
  auto_minor_version_update  = true
  enable_deletion_protection = false

  infrastructure {
    cloud              = "aws"
    additional_storage = 0
    encryption_key     = "finance-db-encyption-key-with-salt"
  }

  service_connectivity {
    service_port         = "5432"
    enable_public_access = true
    allowed_ip_addresses = [
      "11.22.33.44"
    ]
  }

  creds {
    master_user     = "master"
    master_password = "MyPassword@123"
  }

  maintenance_window {
    day      = "Sunday"
    time     = "02:00"
    duration = 30
  }

  snapshot_configuration {
    auto_snapshot = true
    sla           = "2-days-pitr"
    snapshot_window {
      time     = "01:00"
      duration = 30
    }
  }

  engine_configuration {
    postgresql_config {
      parameter_profile = "PostgreSQL 13 Profile"
    }
  }

  databases {
    database_name = "db1"
    database_configuration {
      postgresql_config {
        parameter_profile = "PostgreSQL 13 Profile"
      }
    }
  }

  instances {
      name = "default-node-0"
      role = "primary"
      region = "ap-south-1"
      instance_group_name = "default"
      availability_zone = "ap-south-1a"
      vpc = "tessell-vpc-4jd48"
      compute_type = "tesl_2h_a_p"
    }
#  Uncomment to add new instance or in case of
#  high_availability topology service provisioning
#     instances {
#       name = "default-node-1"
#       role = "failover_replica"
#       region = "ap-south-1"
#       instance_group_name = "default"
#       availability_zone = "ap-south-1b"
#       vpc = "tessell-vpc-4jd48"
#       compute_type = "tesl_2h_a_p"
#     }
#   instances {
#       name = "default-node-2"
#       role = "failover_replica"
#       region = "ap-south-1"
#       instance_group_name = "default"
#       availability_zone = "ap-south-1b"
#       vpc = "tessell-vpc-4jd48"
#       compute_type = "tesl_2h_a_p"
#     }

  tags {
    name  = "department"
    value = "finance"
  }
  tags {
    name  = "finance"
    value = ""
  }
}

# Create a clone of a Oracle DB service
resource "tessell_db_service" "example" {
  name                       = "finance-db-clone"
  description                = "Clone of finance database for QA use"
  subscription               = "default"
  engine_type                = "ORACLE"
  topology                   = "single_instance"
  software_image             = "Oracle 12c"
  software_image_version     = "12.1.0.2.0"
  auto_minor_version_update  = true
  enable_deletion_protection = false

   infrastructure {
    cloud              = "aws"
    additional_storage = 0
    encryption_key     = "finance-db-encyption-key-with-salt"
  }

  service_connectivity {
    service_port         = "1521"
    enable_public_access = true
    allowed_ip_addresses = [
      "11.22.33.44"
    ]
  }

  creds {
    master_user     = "master"
    master_password = "MyPassword@123"
  }

  snapshot_configuration {
    auto_snapshot = true
    sla           = "2-days-pitr"
    snapshot_window {
      time     = "01:00"
      duration = 30
    }
  }

  engine_configuration {
    oracle_config {
      parameter_profile      = "Oracle Parameter Profile"
      options_profile        = "Oracle 12.1.0.2.0 Options Profile"
      character_set          = "AL32UTF8"
      national_character_set = "AL16UTF16"
    }
  }

  databases {
    source_database_id = "14107367-fbc3-4f3d-8cc3-b5a7e5910e08"
    database_name      = "orcl"
    database_configuration {
      oracle_config {
        parameter_profile = "Oracle Parameter Profile"
        options_profile   = "Oracle 12.1.0.2.0 Options Profile"
      }
    }
  }

  instances {
      name = "default-node-0"
      role = "primary"
      region = "ap-south-1"
      instance_group_name = "default"
      availability_zone = "ap-south-1a"
      vpc = "tessell-vpc-4jd48"
      compute_type = "tesl_2h_a_p"
    }
#  Uncomment to add new instance or in case of 
#  high_availability topology service provisioning
#     instances {
#       name = "default-node-1"
#       role = "failover_replica"
#       region = "ap-south-1"
#       instance_group_name = "default"
#       availability_zone = "ap-south-1b"
#       vpc = "tessell-vpc-4jd48"
#       compute_type = "tesl_2h_a_p"
#     }
#   instances {
#       name = "default-node-2"
#       role = "failover_replica"
#       region = "ap-south-1"
#       instance_group_name = "default"
#       availability_zone = "ap-south-1b"
#       vpc = "tessell-vpc-4jd48"
#       compute_type = "tesl_2h_a_p"
#     }

  tags {
    name  = "department"
    value = "finance"
  }
  tags {
    name  = "finance-qa"
    value = ""
  }
  snapshot_id = "4592803a-a8a3-4a5e-be4c-ddf1df654242"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema
(see [below for how to migrate from instance's old config to new config](#nestedblock--migrate_old_to_new))

### Required

- `creds` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) DB Service's credential details (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--creds))
- `engine_configuration` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) This field details the DB Service engine configuration details like - parameter profile, or options profile (if applicable) are used to configure the DB Service. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--engine_configuration))
- `engine_type` (String)
- `infrastructure` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) This field contains DB Service's infrastructure related information, like, where the service is hosted - cloud, encryption details, additional storage (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--infrastructure))
- `name` (String) Name of the DB Service
- `service_connectivity` (Block List, Min: 1, Max: 1) DB Service's connectivity information (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--service_connectivity))
- `software_image` (String) Software Image to be used to create the DB Service
- `software_image_version` (String) Software Image Version to be used to create the DB Service
- `subscription` (String) Tessell Subscription in which the DB Service is to be created
- `topology` (String)
- `instances` (Block List, Min: 1 ) (Required only if using new config style i.e. for instance Life Cycle Management) This field contains DB Service's instances info like, where the service is hosted, region; what compute shape, or network is is configured with (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--instances))


### Optional

- `auto_minor_version_update` (Boolean) Specify whether to automatically update minor version for DB Service
- `block_until_complete` (Boolean) For any operation on this resource, block the flow until the action has completed successfully
- `databases` (Block List) Databases that are part of this DB Service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--databases))
- `deletion_schedule` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--deletion_schedule))
- `description` (String) DB Service's description
- `edition` (String)
- `enable_deletion_protection` (Boolean) Specify whether to enable deletion protection for the DB Service
- `enable_stop_protection` (Boolean) This field specifies whether to enable stop protection for the DB Service. If this is enabled, the stop for the DB Service would be disallowed until this setting is disabled.
- `expected_status` (String) Field used to start/stop a DB service. Ignored during the initial resource creation. Set to "STOPPED" to stop a DB service. Set to "READY" to start a stopped DB service. Defaults to "READY".
- `integrations_config` (Block List, Max: 1) Integrations to be enabled for the DB Service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--integrations_config))
- `maintenance_window` (Block List, Max: 1) This field details the DB Service maintenance related details. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--maintenance_window))
- `parent_availability_machine_id` (String) Id of the parent AvailabilityMachine, required when creating a clone
- `pitr` (String) PITR Timestamp, using which the clone is to be created
- `shared_with` (Block List, Max: 1) Tessell Entity ACL Sharing Info (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--shared_with))
- `snapshot_configuration` (Block List, Max: 1) DB Service's backup configurations. If not specified, the default recommended backup configurations would be applied. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--snapshot_configuration))
- `snapshot_id` (String) Tessell service snapshot Id, using which the clone is to be created
- `tags` (Block List) The tags to be associated with the DB Service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--tags))
- `timeout` (Number) If block_until_complete is true, how long it should block for. (In seconds)
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))

### Read-Only

- `availability_machine_id` (String) Associated Availability Machine Id
- `cloned_from_info` (List of Object) If the DB Service is created as a clone from some other DB Service, this section describes the parent DB Service and cloning details (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--cloned_from_info))
- `context_info` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--context_info))
- `date_created` (String) Timestamp when the DB Service was created at
- `deletion_config` (List of Object) If the service is to be deleted, this config would be honoured if no preference is provided during deleting the service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--deletion_config))
- `id` (String) Tessell generated UUID for the DB Service. This is the unique identifier for the DB Service.
- `instances` (List of Object) Instances associated with this DB Service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--instances))
- `license_type` (String) DB Service License Type
- `logged_in_user_role` (String) Access role for the currently logged in user
- `num_of_instances` (Number) Number of instance (nodes) to be created for the DB Service. This is a required input for Apache Kafka. For all other engines, this input would be ignored even if specified.
- `owner` (String) DB Service owner email address
- `software_image_version_family` (String) Software Image Family DB Service belongs to
- `started_at` (String) Timestamp when the DB Service was last started at
- `status` (String)
- `stopped_at` (String) Timestamp when the DB Service was last stopped at
- `tenant_id` (String) The tenant-id for the DB Service
- `tessell_genie_status` (String) DB Service's Genie status
- `upcoming_scheduled_actions` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--upcoming_scheduled_actions))
- `updates_in_progress` (List of Object) The updates that are in progress for this resource (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--updates_in_progress))

<a id="nestedblock--creds"></a>
### Nested Schema for `creds`

Required:

- `master_password` (String) DB Service's master password
- `master_user` (String) DB Service's master username


<a id="nestedblock--engine_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `engine_configuration`

Optional:

- `apache_kafka_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--engine_configuration--apache_kafka_config))
- `mongodb_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--engine_configuration--mongodb_config))
- `mysql_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--engine_configuration--mysql_config))
- `oracle_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--engine_configuration--oracle_config))
- `post_script_info` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--engine_configuration--post_script_info))
- `postgresql_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--engine_configuration--postgresql_config))
- `pre_script_info` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--engine_configuration--pre_script_info))
- `sql_server_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--engine_configuration--sql_server_config))

<a id="nestedblock--engine_configuration--apache_kafka_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `engine_configuration.apache_kafka_config`

Optional:

- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database


<a id="nestedblock--engine_configuration--mongodb_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `engine_configuration.mongodb_config`

Optional:

- `cluster_name` (String) The MongoDB Cluster name
- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database


<a id="nestedblock--engine_configuration--mysql_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `engine_configuration.mysql_config`

Optional:

- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database


<a id="nestedblock--engine_configuration--oracle_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `engine_configuration.oracle_config`

Optional:

- `character_set` (String) The character-set for the database
- `multi_tenant` (Boolean) Specify whether the DB Service is multi-tenant.
- `national_character_set` (String) The national-character-set for the database
- `options_profile` (String) The options profile for the database
- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database


<a id="nestedblock--engine_configuration--post_script_info"></a>
### Nested Schema for `engine_configuration.post_script_info`

Optional:

- `script_id` (String) The Tessell Script Id
- `script_version` (String) The Tessell Script version


<a id="nestedblock--engine_configuration--postgresql_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `engine_configuration.postgresql_config`

Optional:

- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database


<a id="nestedblock--engine_configuration--pre_script_info"></a>
### Nested Schema for `engine_configuration.pre_script_info`

Optional:

- `script_id` (String) The Tessell Script Id
- `script_version` (String) The Tessell Script version


<a id="nestedblock--engine_configuration--sql_server_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `engine_configuration.sql_server_config`

Optional:

- `ad_domain_id` (String) Active Directory Domain id
- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database



<a id="nestedblock--infrastructure"></a>
### Nested Schema for `infrastructure`

Optional:

- `additional_storage` (Number) Size in bytes. This should be in multiple of 1,073,741,824 bytes (=1GB). This is maintained for backward compatibility and would be deprecated soon.
- `cloud` (String) The cloud-type in which the DB Service is provisioned (ex. aws, azure)
- `enable_encryption` (Boolean) Specify whether to enable perf insights for the DB instances
- `encryption_key` (String) The encryption key name which is used to encrypt the data at rest

Read-Only:

- `cloud_availability` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--infrastructure--cloud_availability))
- `storage` (Number) The storage (in bytes) that has been provisioned for the DB Service

<a id="nestedblock--instances"></a>
### Nested Schema for `instances`
Requried:
- `instance_group_name` (String) instance group name.
- `name` (String) Name of the instance to be created, should be unique for a dbservice
- `region` (String) The region in which the instance is to be provisioned
- `role` (String) Role of the service it can be 'primary', 'failover_replica', 'dr' or 'read_only_replica'

Optional:

- `vpc` (String) The VPC to be used for provisioning the instance. If not specified, it will be inherited from the current instances that are in the same region. If no instances are present in the target region, this is a required input.
- `compute_type` (String) The compute-type to be used for provisioning the instance. If not specified, it will be inherited from the current primary instance.
- `compute_id` (String) compute id
- `enable_perf_insights` (Boolean) Specify whether to enable perf insights for the DB instances
- `availability_zone` (String) The availability-zone in which the instance is to be provisioned
- `data_volume_iops` (Number) iops
- `throughput` (Number) Required throughput

<a id="nestedatt--infrastructure--cloud_availability"></a>
### Nested Schema for `infrastructure.cloud_availability`

Read-Only:

- `cloud` (String)
- `regions` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--infrastructure--cloud_availability--regions))

<a id="nestedobjatt--infrastructure--cloud_availability--regions"></a>
### Nested Schema for `infrastructure.cloud_availability.regions`

Read-Only:

- `availability_zones` (List of String)
- `region` (String)




<a id="nestedblock--service_connectivity"></a>
### Nested Schema for `service_connectivity`

Optional:

- `allowed_ip_addresses` (List of String) The list of allowed ipv4 addresses that can connect to the DB Service
- `dns_prefix` (String)
- `enable_public_access` (Boolean) Specify whether to enable public access to the DB Service, default false
- `enable_ssl` (Boolean)
- `service_port` (Number) The connection port for the DB Service

Read-Only:

- `ca_cert_id` (String)
- `connect_strings` (List of Object) The list of connect strings for the DB Service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--service_connectivity--connect_strings))
- `private_link` (List of Object) The interface endpoint or Gateway Load Balancer endpoint to connect to your DB service. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--service_connectivity--private_link))
- `update_in_progress_info` (List of Object) DB Service connectivity update-in-progress details (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--service_connectivity--update_in_progress_info))

<a id="nestedatt--service_connectivity--connect_strings"></a>
### Nested Schema for `service_connectivity.connect_strings`

Read-Only:

- `connect_descriptor` (String)
- `endpoint` (String)
- `master_user` (String)
- `service_port` (Number)
- `type` (String)
- `usage_type` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--service_connectivity--private_link"></a>
### Nested Schema for `service_connectivity.private_link`

Read-Only:

- `client_azure_subscription_ids` (List of String)
- `endpoint_service_name` (String)
- `private_link_service_alias` (String)
- `service_principals` (List of String)
- `status` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--service_connectivity--update_in_progress_info"></a>
### Nested Schema for `service_connectivity.update_in_progress_info`

Read-Only:

- `allowed_ip_addresses` (List of String)
- `dns_prefix` (String)
- `enable_public_access` (Boolean)
- `private_link` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--service_connectivity--update_in_progress_info--private_link))

<a id="nestedobjatt--service_connectivity--update_in_progress_info--private_link"></a>
### Nested Schema for `service_connectivity.update_in_progress_info.private_link`

Read-Only:

- `client_azure_subscription_ids` (List of String)
- `service_principals` (List of String)




<a id="nestedblock--databases"></a>
### Nested Schema for `databases`

Optional:

- `database_configuration` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--databases--database_configuration))
- `database_name` (String) Database name
- `description` (String) Database description
- `source_database_id` (String) Required while creating a clone. It specifies the Id of the source database from which the clone is being created.

Read-Only:

- `cloned_from_info` (List of Object) If a database is created as a clone from some other DB Service's database, this section describes the original database details (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--databases--cloned_from_info))
- `date_created` (String) Timestamp when the entity was created
- `engine_type` (String) Database Engine Type
- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.
- `status` (String) Database status
- `tessell_service_id` (String) Associated DB Service Id

<a id="nestedblock--databases--database_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `databases.database_configuration`

Optional:

- `mongodb_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--databases--database_configuration--mongodb_config))
- `mysql_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--databases--database_configuration--mysql_config))
- `oracle_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--databases--database_configuration--oracle_config))
- `postgresql_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--databases--database_configuration--postgresql_config))
- `sql_server_config` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--databases--database_configuration--sql_server_config))

<a id="nestedblock--databases--database_configuration--mongodb_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `databases.database_configuration.mongodb_config`

Optional:

- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database


<a id="nestedblock--databases--database_configuration--mysql_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `databases.database_configuration.mysql_config`

Optional:

- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database


<a id="nestedblock--databases--database_configuration--oracle_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `databases.database_configuration.oracle_config`

Optional:

- `options_profile` (String) The options profile for the database
- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database


<a id="nestedblock--databases--database_configuration--postgresql_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `databases.database_configuration.postgresql_config`

Optional:

- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database


<a id="nestedblock--databases--database_configuration--sql_server_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `databases.database_configuration.sql_server_config`

Optional:

- `parameter_profile_id` (String) The parameter profile id for the database



<a id="nestedatt--databases--cloned_from_info"></a>
### Nested Schema for `databases.cloned_from_info`

Read-Only:

- `database_id` (String)



<a id="nestedblock--deletion_schedule"></a>
### Nested Schema for `deletion_schedule`

Required:

- `delete_at` (String) DB Service deletion Time

Read-Only:

- `deletion_config` (List of Object) If the service is to be deleted, this config would be honoured if no preference is provided during deleting the service (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--deletion_schedule--deletion_config))

<a id="nestedatt--deletion_schedule--deletion_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `deletion_schedule.deletion_config`

Read-Only:

- `retain_availability_machine` (Boolean)



<a id="nestedblock--integrations_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `integrations_config`

Optional:

- `integrations` (List of String)


<a id="nestedblock--maintenance_window"></a>
### Nested Schema for `maintenance_window`

Required:

- `day` (String)
- `duration` (Number)
- `time` (String) Time value in (hh:mm) format. ex. '02:00'


<a id="nestedblock--shared_with"></a>
### Nested Schema for `shared_with`

Optional:

- `users` (Block List) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--shared_with--users))

<a id="nestedblock--shared_with--users"></a>
### Nested Schema for `shared_with.users`

Optional:

- `email_id` (String)
- `role` (String)



<a id="nestedblock--snapshot_configuration"></a>
### Nested Schema for `snapshot_configuration`

Optional:

- `auto_snapshot` (Boolean) Specify whether to capture automated snapshots for the DB Service, default true.
- `sla` (String) The snapshot SLA for the DB Service. If not specified, a default SLA would be associated with the DB Service
- `snapshot_window` (Block List, Max: 1) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--snapshot_configuration--snapshot_window))

<a id="nestedblock--snapshot_configuration--snapshot_window"></a>
### Nested Schema for `snapshot_configuration.snapshot_window`

Optional:

- `duration` (Number) The allowed duration for capturing the DB Service backup
- `time` (String) Time value in (hh:mm) format. ex. '02:00'



<a id="nestedblock--tags"></a>
### Nested Schema for `tags`

Optional:

- `name` (String) Case sensitive, tag name
- `value` (String) Case sensitive, tag value


<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--cloned_from_info"></a>
### Nested Schema for `cloned_from_info`

Read-Only:

- `availability_machine` (String)
- `availability_machine_id` (String)
- `maximum_recoverability` (Boolean)
- `pitr_time` (String)
- `snapshot_id` (String)
- `snapshot_name` (String)
- `snapshot_time` (String)
- `tessell_service` (String)
- `tessell_service_id` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--context_info"></a>
### Nested Schema for `context_info`

Read-Only:

- `description` (String)
- `sub_status` (String)


<a id="nestedatt--deletion_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `deletion_config`

Read-Only:

- `retain_availability_machine` (Boolean)


<a id="nestedatt--instances"></a>
### Nested Schema for `instances`

Read-Only:

- `availability_zone` (String)
- `aws_infra_config` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--instances--aws_infra_config))
- `cloud` (String)
- `compute_type` (String)
- `connect_string` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--instances--connect_string))
- `data_volume_iops` (Number)
- `date_created` (String)
- `encryption_key` (String)
- `id` (String)
- `instance_group_id` (String)
- `last_started_at` (String)
- `last_stopped_at` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `parameter_profile` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--instances--parameter_profile))
- `region` (String)
- `role` (String)
- `software_image` (String)
- `software_image_version` (String)
- `status` (String)
- `storage` (Number)
- `tessell_service_id` (String)
- `type` (String)
- `updates_in_progress` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--instances--updates_in_progress))
- `vpc` (String)

<a id="nestedobjatt--instances--aws_infra_config"></a>
### Nested Schema for `instances.aws_infra_config`

Read-Only:

- `aws_cpu_options` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--instances--aws_infra_config--aws_cpu_options))

<a id="nestedobjatt--instances--aws_infra_config--aws_cpu_options"></a>
### Nested Schema for `instances.aws_infra_config.aws_cpu_options`

Read-Only:

- `vcpus` (Number)



<a id="nestedobjatt--instances--connect_string"></a>
### Nested Schema for `instances.connect_string`

Read-Only:

- `connect_descriptor` (String)
- `endpoint` (String)
- `master_user` (String)
- `service_port` (String)


<a id="nestedobjatt--instances--parameter_profile"></a>
### Nested Schema for `instances.parameter_profile`

Read-Only:

- `id` (String)
- `name` (String)
- `status` (String)
- `version` (String)


<a id="nestedobjatt--instances--updates_in_progress"></a>
### Nested Schema for `instances.updates_in_progress`

Read-Only:

- `reference_id` (String)
- `submitted_at` (String)
- `update_info` (Map of String)
- `update_type` (String)



<a id="nestedatt--upcoming_scheduled_actions"></a>
### Nested Schema for `upcoming_scheduled_actions`

Read-Only:

- `delete` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--upcoming_scheduled_actions--delete))
- `patch` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--upcoming_scheduled_actions--patch))
- `start_stop` (List of Object) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedobjatt--upcoming_scheduled_actions--start_stop))

<a id="nestedobjatt--upcoming_scheduled_actions--delete"></a>
### Nested Schema for `upcoming_scheduled_actions.delete`

Read-Only:

- `at` (String)


<a id="nestedobjatt--upcoming_scheduled_actions--patch"></a>
### Nested Schema for `upcoming_scheduled_actions.patch`

Read-Only:

- `at` (String)
- `message` (String)


<a id="nestedobjatt--upcoming_scheduled_actions--start_stop"></a>
### Nested Schema for `upcoming_scheduled_actions.start_stop`

Read-Only:

- `action` (String)
- `at` (String)



<a id="nestedatt--updates_in_progress"></a>
### Nested Schema for `updates_in_progress`

Read-Only:

- `reference_id` (String)
- `submitted_at` (String)
- `update_info` (Map of String)
- `update_type` (String)


<a id="nestedblock--migrate_old_to_new"></a>
### Migrate Terraform Configuration: Old to New

| **Old Config Style**                                   | **New Config Style**                                         |
|--------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|
| terraform                                              | terraform                                                    |
| terraform {                                            | terraform {                                                  |
| required_providers {                                   | required_providers {                                         |
| tessell = {                                            | tessell = {                                                  |
| source  = "tessell-cloud/tessell" # pre version 0.0.19 | source  = "tessell-cloud/tessell" # post version 0.0.19      |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| provider "tessell" {                                   | provider "tessell" {                                         |
| api_address = "https://api.clonrerefresh001.tsl-terls.cloud" | api_address = "https://api.clonrerefresh001.tsl-terls.cloud" |
| tenant_id = "238c5c14-7fee-47f8-98c2-788555914712"     | tenant_id = "238c5c14-7fee-47f8-98c2-788555914712"           |
| api_key = <API_KEY>                                    | api_key = ""                                                 |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| resource "tessell_db_service" "my_service_1e1d0a7e" {  | resource "tessell_db_service" "my_service_42a768d0-TF-3" {   |
| name = "my-service-1e1d0a7e"                           | name = "my-service-42a768d0-TF-3"                            |
| description = ""                                       | description = ""                                             |
| subscription = "AWS-BYOA-18729402847"                  | subscription = "AWS-BYOA-18729402847"                        |
| edition = "COMMUNITY"                                  | edition = "COMMUNITY"                                        |
| engine_type = "MYSQL"                                  | engine_type = "MYSQL"                                        |
| topology = "high_availability"                         | topology = "high_availability"                               |
| software_image = "MySQL 8.0"                           | software_image = "MySQL 8.0"                                 |
| software_image_version = "MySQL 8.0.36"                | software_image_version = "MySQL 8.0.36"                      |
| auto_minor_version_update = true                       | auto_minor_version_update = true                             |
| enable_deletion_protection = false                     | enable_deletion_protection = false                           |
| enable_stop_protection = false                         | enable_stop_protection = false                               |
| infrastructure {                                       | infrastructure {                                             |
| cloud = "aws"                                          | cloud = "aws"                                                |
| region = "ap-south-1"                                  |                                                              |
| availability_zone = "ap-south-1a"                      |                                                              |
| vpc = "tessell-vpc-4jd48"                              |                                                              |
| compute_type = "tesl_2_a"                              |                                                              |
| enable_encryption = false                              |                                                              |
| encryption_key = null                                  |                                                              |
| additional_storage = 0                                 |                                                              |
| compute_name_prefix = "server1"                        |                                                              |
| computes {                                             |                                                              |
| role = "primary"                                       |                                                              |
| }                                                      |                                                              |
| computes {                                             |                                                              |
| role = "failover_replica"                              |                                                              |
| }                                                      |                                                              |
| computes {                                             |                                                              |
| role = "failover_replica"                              |                                                              |
| }                                                      |                                                              |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| service_connectivity {                                 | service_connectivity {                                       |
| service_port = "3306"                                  | service_port = "3306"                                        |
| enable_public_access = false                           | enable_public_access = false                                 |
| allowed_ip_addresses = [                               | allowed_ip_addresses = [                                     |
| "49.36.xxx.xxx",                                       | "49.36.xxx.xxx",                                             |
| ]                                                      | ]                                                            |
| enable_ssl = false                                     | enable_ssl = false                                           |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| creds {                                                | creds {                                                      |
| master_user = "master"                                 | master_user = "master"                                       |
| master_password = "Password@123#"                      | master_password = "Password@123#"                            |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| maintenance_window {                                   | maintenance_window {                                         |
| day = "Sunday"                                         | day = "Sunday"                                               |
| time = "02:00"                                         | time = "02:00"                                               |
| duration = 30                                          | duration = 30                                                |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| snapshot_configuration {                               | snapshot_configuration {                                     |
| sla = "2-days-pitr"                                    | sla = "2-days-pitr"                                          |
| schedule {                                             | schedule {                                                   |
| backup_start_time {                                    | backup_start_time {                                          |
| hour = 19                                              | hour = 19                                                    |
| minute = 30                                            | minute = 30                                                  |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| engine_configuration {                                 | engine_configuration {                                       |
| mysql_config {                                         | mysql_config {                                               |
| parameter_profile_id = "pmx"                           | parameter_profile_id = "pmx"                                 |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| databases {                                            | databases {                                                  |
| database_name = "db1"                                  | database_name = "db1"                                        |
| database_configuration {                               | database_configuration {                                     |
| mysql_config {                                         | mysql_config {                                               |
| parameter_profile_id = "pmx"                           | parameter_profile_id = "pmx"                                 |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
| }                                                      | instances {                                                  |
|                                                        | name = "default-node-0"                                      |
|                                                        | role = "primary"                                             |
|                                                        | region = "ap-south-1"                                        |
|                                                        | instance_group_name = "default"                              |
|                                                        | availability_zone = "ap-south-1a"                            |
|                                                        | vpc = "tessell-vpc-4jd48"                                    |
|                                                        | compute_type = "tesl_2h_a_p"                                 |
|                                                        | }                                                            |
|                                                        | instances {                                                  |
|                                                        | name = "default-node-1"                                      |
|                                                        | role = "failover_replica"                                    |
|                                                        | region = "ap-south-1"                                        |
|                                                        | instance_group_name = "default"                              |
|                                                        | availability_zone = "ap-south-1b"                            |
|                                                        | vpc = "tessell-vpc-4jd48"                                    |
|                                                        | compute_type = "tesl_2h_a_p"                                 |
|                                                        | }                                                            |
|                                                        | instances {                                                  |
|                                                        | name = "default-node-2"                                      |
|                                                        | role = "failover_replica"                                    |
|                                                        | region = "ap-south-1"                                        |
|                                                        | instance_group_name = "default"                              |
|                                                        | availability_zone = "ap-south-1b"                            |
|                                                        | vpc = "tessell-vpc-4jd48"                                    |
|                                                        | compute_type = "tesl_2h_a_p"                                 |
|                                                        | }                                                            |
| }                                                      | }                                                            |
